Add Stripe recap blog post (#497)
trinodb/trino.io: _posts/2023-07-19-trino-fest-2023-stripe.md

---
layout: post
title: "Inspecting Trino on ice"
author: "Kevin Liu, Ryan Duan"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
image: /assets/blog/trino-fest-2023/Stripe.png
show_pagenav: false
---

Stripe is an online payment processor that facilitates online payments for

> digital native merchants. They use Trino to facilitate ad hoc analytics, enable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
digital-native merchants. They use Trino to facilitate ad hoc analytics, enable
```
Maybe start with "For those unfamiliar" or something like that. Stripe is a huge company, most people will know what it is, and acknowledging that is sensible.

> dashboarding, and provide an internal API for internal services and data apps to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dashboarding, and provide an API for internal services and data apps to
```
We can delete one "internal."

utilize Trino. In Kevin Liu's session at [Trino Fest 2023]({% post_url
2023-06-20-trino-fest-2023-recap %}), he showcases the Trino Iceberg connector
and how it can replace more complex usage to access Iceberg metedata. He also
discusses how Trino is at the core of all operations at Stripe.

<!--more-->

{% youtube PSGuAMVc6-w %}

## Recap

Trino is the foundational infrastructure on which other apps and services are
built upon. In Kevin's words, "I call Trino the Swiss army knife in the data
ecosystem." At Stripe, they use Iceberg tables extensively and want to migrate

> away from Hive. One problem with the Iceberg CLI is that it requires an internal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
away from Hive. But Iceberg isn't perfect: one problem with the Iceberg CLI is that it requires an internal
```

developer machine that accesses the data. The CLI is also painful to use for
them. The CLI uses JSON format as output, which it difficult to process, read,

> and us for further analysis. However using the Trino Iceberg connector, it can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and us for further analysis. However, Kevin found that the Trino Iceberg connector can
```

replace some of the functionalities of the Iceberg CLI.

Unfortunately, there was no way to grab table property information from the
Trino Iceberg connector, because they were using an older version. Thus, they
use the Trino PostgreSQL connector to inspect table metadata from Hive
metastore. This connector reads Hive metastore's databases directly with Trino.

> With the connector, they have all the information about the data warehouse and
> can do a lot more analysis of the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the two connectors, they have all the information about the data warehouse,
powering their analysis and meta-analysis of the data and how it's used.
```

---
layout: post
title: "Inspecting Trino on ice"
author: "Kevin Liu, Ryan Duan"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
image: /assets/blog/trino-fest-2023/Stripe.png
show_pagenav: false
---

Stripe is an online payment processor that facilitates online payments for

> digital native merchants. They use Trino to facilitate ad hoc analysis, enable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
digital native merchants. They use Trino to facilitate ad hoc analytics, enable
```

> dashboarding, and provide internal API in order for services to utilize Trino to

Reviewer 2: not sure what the  "and provide internal API" .. is trying to say

query information. In Kevin Liu's session at [Trino Fest 2023]({% post_url

> 2023-06-20-trino-fest-2023-recap %}), he details the power of Trino connectors

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2023-06-20-trino-fest-2023-recap %}), he showcases the Trino Iceberg connector
```

> and how it can even replace some functionalities. He also discusses how Trino

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and how it can replace more complex usage to access Iceberg metedata. He also discusses how Trino
```

is at the core of all operations at Stripe.

<!--more-->

{% youtube PSGuAMVc6-w %}

## Recap

Trino is the foundational infrastructure on which other apps and
services are built upon. In Kevin's words, "I call Trino the Swiss army knife in
the data ecosystem." At Stripe, they use Iceberg tables extensively and want to

> migrate away from Hive. Some problems with the Iceberg CLI is that it requires

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
migrate away from Hive. One problem with the Iceberg CLI is that it requires
```

> an internal developer machine that accesses their data, which is painful to use

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
an internal developer machine that accesses the data. The CLI is also painful to use
```

> for them. The output is also in JSON format, which is not human readable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for them. The CLI uses JSON format as output, which it difficult to process, read, and us for further analysis.
```

> However using the Trino Iceberg connector, it can replace some of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However using the Trino Iceberg connector, Kevin can replace some of the
```

functionalities of the Iceberg CLI.

> Unfortunately, there was no way to grant table property information from the

Reviewer 2: Maybe 

Since Stripe is not using one of the latest versions of Trino, not all metadata about the Iceberg tables properties is available directly in the catalog. However they decided to create a catalog that uses the PostgreSQL connector and is configured to access the Hive metastore table. It contains that missing information. With this setup, they have all the information...

Unfortunately, there was no way to grab table property information from the
Trino Iceberg connector, because they were using an older version. Thus, they

> use the Trino PostgreSQL connector to inspect table metadata from Hive

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
use the Trino PostgreSQL connector to inspect table metadata directly from the backend database of the Hive
```

> metastore. This connector reads Hive metastore's databases directly with Trino.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
metastore. 
```

can do a lot more analysis of the data.

They also use Trino to inspect Iceberg usage patterns. They log every Trino

> query using the Trino event listener and store that in a PostgreSQL database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
query using the Trino event listener and store that in another PostgreSQL database.
```

This gives the full information of every query that has ever run through Trino.

> This allows them to use the Trino connector to connect to the database and read

Reviewer 2: Again they can use a catalog with the PostgreSQL connector to access the query history from the database.

> events. Starburst actually has a version of this functionality called the

Reviewer 2: Is this Starburst info relevant (if so why.. do they use that or do they use a custom implementation?). Did it come up in the talk?

> Starburst query logger. This query metadata enrichment enables multitude of

Reviewer 2: The last sentence feels like a filler
